Use backticks to render URLs etc as monospaced (#159)
AMWA-TV/nmos-discovery-registration: docs/2.5. APIs - Query Parameters.md

## Pagination

> Query APIs SHOULD support pagination of their API resources where the `paged` trait is specified in the RAML documentation. A 501 HTTP status code MUST be returned where pagination is attempted against a Query API which does not implement it. Pagination is not used by WebSocket subscriptions.

Reviewer: Not sure about the trait name paged being back-ticked?

Author: Let's discuss

Reviewer: It's fine, I don't feel strongly.

- Paging based on `creation` time from the start of a collection provides the best mechanism to identify all resources held in a registry.
- Paging based on `update` time from the end of a collection provides the best mechanism to watch for changing resources in the case that WebSocket subscriptions are not available.

Paging through a collection for a second time, using the same cursors as previously SHOULD NOT result in new data appearing in the response payloads when using `creation` ordering, provided the requested paging times are less than or equal to the maximum paging time held in the registry. However, note that as the registry is dynamic and resources could be updated or deleted a given cursor MAY return fewer results than it did previously. When using `update` ordering and a query filter, new data MAY appear when cursors are used for a second time.

When query parameters which perform filtering are used at the same time as paging, the filters MUST be applied by the implementation before applying paging parameters to the resulting data set.

A server MAY choose its own default value for paging limit (see Example 1).

> Where both `since` and `until` parameters are specified, the `since` value takes precedence where a resulting data set is constrained by the server`s value of `limit` (see Example 5).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where both `since` and `until` parameters are specified, the `since` value takes precedence where a resulting data set is constrained by the server's value of `limit` (see Example 5).
```

Servers SHOULD include `prev` and `next` Link headers and MAY include `first` and `last` Link headers in all responses.

### Examples

The following examples show pagination for a set of registered data. In order to avoid displaying full resource representations, the only data listed here is the `update` timestamp associated with each registered record. The same procedures can be applied where `creation` timestamps and the `?paging.order=create` parameter are used instead.

> Where a paging limit is not specified in a request the server`s default is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where a paging limit is not specified in a request the server's default is used.
```

***Notes***

- The data set returned when no query parameters are specified MUST be from the most recently updated (or created) resources in the collection, returned in descending order.

> - The `X-Paging` headers identify properties of the collection of data returned in the response. These parameters can be used to construct a URL which would return the same set of bounded data on consecutive requests, for example:

Reviewer: Just a suggestion...

```suggestion
- The `X-Paging-` headers identify properties of the collection of data returned in the response. These parameters can be used to construct a URL which would return the same set of bounded data on consecutive requests, for example:
```

***Notes***

> - Whilst both `since` and `until` are specified, as this server example has a default paging limit of `10`, the `since` parameter  takes precedence. As a result of this the value of X-Paging-Until is lower than requested and a further request MUST be made to retrieve any remaining data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Whilst both `since` and `until` are specified, as this server example has a default paging limit of `10`, the `since` parameter  takes precedence. As a result of this the value of `X-Paging-Until` is lower than requested and a further request MUST be made to retrieve any remaining data.
```

### Edge Cases

When a client requests data which falls at the extreme ends of the stored data set it can be less clear what values SHOULD be returned in the `X-Paging-Limit` and `X-Paging-Since` headers. The following examples are intended to clarify these cases.

> Where a paging limit is not specified in a request the server`s default is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where a paging limit is not specified in a request the server's default is used.
```
